TO: Steven H. Ingle
FROM: Brian Pilchik
DATE: September 24, 2014
RE: Bill “Catman” Jones v. FSN Pittsburgh and Kia of Erie (free car giveaway) (file # 08-123)

QUESTION PRESENTED
Mr. Bill Jones attended an Erie Wildcats baseball game. At the game, FSN Pittsburgh and Kia of Erie (FSN) announced a televised contest for which the prize would be a free car. Mr. Jones participated in the contest and won, but FSN awarded him a toy car rather than a real car. Did Mr. Jones enter into an enforceable contract with FSN for a real car?
 
BRIEF ANSWER
Probably yes. In Pennsylvania, an oral contract is enforceable if there is mutual intent to be bound, sufficiently definite terms, and consideration, so long as the subject matter is lawful. In the present case, mutual intent to be bound was established by FSN’s publicized offer of the free car and Mr. Jones’ willingness to participate in the contest. Despite FSN’s claim that it meant the prize as a joke, its outward expression of intent was binding for a real car. Although the terms of the contest were not as explicit as they could have been, they are likely to be found sufficiently definite to be enforced. Finally, Mr. Jones’ participation in the televised roaring contest constitutes consideration for the car. Assuming that such an agreement is otherwise lawful in Pennsylvania, Mr. Jones entered into an enforceable contract with FSN for a real car.

FACT STATEMENT
On August 31, 2014, Mr. Bill Jones attended an Erie Wildcats baseball game. Mr. Jones regularly attends Wildcats games and claims to be well-known as a local celebrity fan. Previous Wildcats games had been sponsored by local businesses and included such giveaways as soccer balls to the first 1,000 kids in attendance or a new lawn mower for one dad on Father’s Day. FSN Pittsburgh and Kia of Erie (FSN) had advertised August 31 as “Car Giveaway Night” on its promotional materials and the website and tickets stated “The Wildcats’ biggest fan will be awarded a free car! Presented by FSN Pittsburgh and Kia of Erie.” Toward the beginning of the game, FSN announced in the stadium and on television that the biggest fan who stayed until the ninth inning would receive a free car from Kia of Erie. In the seventh inning, Mr. Jones was approached by an individual wearing a Kia cap. The representative asked for, and Mr. Jones supplied, Mr. Jones’ name, age, address, and other information. At the end of the eighth inning, the representative informed Mr. Jones that Mr. Jones would appear on the infield before the ninth inning alongside two other fans. The three would do their best “Wildcat Roar” and the stadium fans would pick the winner of the free car. Mr. Jones subsequently did his roar on camera and an FSN announcer declared Mr. Jones the winner. Mr. Jones was then presented with a Matchbox toy car. After the cameras were turned off, the announcer explained to Mr. Jones that “This is your car, man. It was a joke!” Mr. Jones did not receive any additional prize.

DISCUSSION
Mr. Jones will likely be able to recover for a breach of contract. In this case, any contract formed must be considered informal, insofar as it was not written. [See Richard A. Lord, Williston on Contracts § 3:1 (4th ed. 2008).] The law recognizes four elements which render an informal contract enforceable: mutual intent to be bound, sufficiently definite terms, consideration, and lawfulness. [Id. at § 3:2.] For the purposes of this memo, we will assume that the contract in question would be lawful. This memo will therefore address the other three requisite elements for enforceable contracts.
The discussion will begin with mutual intent to be bound, evidenced by FSN’s announcement of the contest and Mr. Jones’ participation in it. It will then address the anticipated argument from FSN that its intent was only in jest, finding that a Pennsylvania court would likely interpret FSN’s outwardly expressed promise to offer a free car as binding nonetheless. It will then turn to the element of definite terms, which, given additional information about industry practice, can likely be established. Finally, it will address the element of consideration, constituted by Mr. Jones’ performance of the “Wildcat Roar.” With each element of an enforceable contract likely to be met, Mr. Jones’ claim will probably succeed.

1. FSN’s public announcement of the contest and Mr. Jones’ participation in the contest constitute mutual intent to be bound.
For a contract to be enforceable, the law requires that both parties objectively “inten[d] to be bound by the agreement.” [Williston at § 3:2.] Pennsylvania courts have held that by publicizing the conditions and rules of a prize-winning contest, a promoter makes an offer which he is bound to perform. [See Pacitti v. Macy’s, 193 F.3d 776, 772-73 (3d Cit. 1999); see also Cobaugh v. Klick-Lewis, Inc., 561 A.2d 1248, 1249 (Pa. Super. 1989).] Subsequently, performance of the requested act is sufficient to accept the offer. [See Cobaugh, 561 A.2d at 1249.]
	FSN demonstrated intent to be bound by publicizing its offer for a “free car.” FSN used promotional materials to advertise August 31, 2014 as “Car Giveaway Night” and promised on its website and ticket materials: “The Wildcats’ biggest fan will be awarded a free car!” At this point, the contest, if not the particular conditions, was publicized. During the ballgame, FSN broadcast on television and within the stadium that “the biggest fan who stayed until the ninth inning would receive a free car from Kia of Erie.” Here, several conditions (being the “biggest fan” and staying until the ninth inning) were publicized. While some of the details of the contest were only revealed later (that to qualify as the “biggest fan,” one would have to perform a “Wildcat Roar”), those conditions were eventually made public by the FSN announcer. By publicizing the existence and conditions of the contest, FSN indicated its intent to be bound.
Mr. Jones also demonstrated intent to be bound. He remained in the stadium until the ninth inning, provided his contact information to a Kia representative, and performed a “Wildcat Roar” in the infield, all at FSN’s request. By performing the requested acts, Mr. Jones accepted the offer, expressing his intent to be bound.

2. FSN’s undisclosed intent not to be bound for the delivery of a real car does not negate the enforceability of the contract.
In Pennsylvania, courts have determined that “[i]n ascertaining the intent of the parties to a contract, it is their outward and objective manifestations of assent, as opposed to their undisclosed and subjective intentions, that matter.” [Ingrassia Construction Co., Inc. v. Walsh, 486 A.2d 478, 483 (Pa. Super 1984); see also Lucy v. Zehmer, 84 S.E. 2d 516, 521 (Va. 1954).] These outward intentions are interpreted by the “reasonable meaning of [a person’s] words or acts” rather than “his secret and unexpressed intention.” [Lucy, 84 S.E. 2d at 521]. If claims of subjective intent allowed parties to escape contracts, little could be done to ever hold bad faith actors to an agreement. In Lucy, for example, a contract was found binding even though one party claimed it was made in jest because he did nothing to indicate that he was joking until after the offer had been accepted. [See id. at 521-22]. 
	FSN may claim that its offer to provide a car “was a joke” and that it intended to provide a toy car all along. Yet the “outward manifestation” of its intentions did not reveal this. FSN’s advertisements did not, even in small print, indicate that the car provided would be anything other than the “reasonable meaning” of the phrase “free car.” It was not until after Mr. Jones assented to and completed his part of the agreement that FSN revealed its alternative intentions. In a case where a hidden intention was revealed sooner, immediately following acceptance, courts were still willing to hold outward intentions to be binding. [See id. at 517-18 (contract for the sale of a farm was binding despite being protested as a joke before money exchanged hands).] Seeing as FSN waited even longer before explaining the “joke,” its manifest intent must have remained its original promise. Because FSN outwardly promised a “free car,” it became bound to provide one.

3. FSN’s offer of a free car to the contest winner is sufficiently definite to be enforced.
A contract requires the essential terms of the agreement to be “sufficiently definite” to be enforced. [Williston at § 3:2.] This does not mean, however, that every detail of the contract needs to be spelled out explicitly. Rather, where terms are indefinite or missing, Pennsylvania courts have been willing to turn to “trade or industry custom” to resolve them. [Ingrassia, 486 A.2d at 483-84 (due to common industry practice, a subcontractor was found responsible for providing certain equipment where the contract did not specify).] Even when a contract was indefinite enough to support more than one reasonable interpretation, courts have found the contract enforceable and, implicitly, sufficiently definite. [See Pacitti, 193 F.3d at 774 (contract to perform on Broadway was enforceable despite two possible interpretations).] Once a contract is found to have been formed, a jury can find the reasonable interpretation of what exactly was contracted for. [See id. at 773].
The terms of FSN’s contest promised a “free car” to the “biggest fan.” As previously discussed, “biggest fan” was later explained as the fan who won the roaring contest. Mr. Jones was selected and publicly announced as the contest winner, establishing that he had met the requirements to win the prize. “Free car” is less obviously a definite component to the agreement. Had FSN specified the make and model of the car, or even put the vehicle on display, it would be easier to define the promised prize. In lieu of such clarity, industry custom can supply definiteness. Previous prizes offered by Wildcats sponsors include real soccer balls and a real lawn mower, lending credibility to the idea that FSN could contract to provide a real car. Although various possible interpretations may be available for the quality and condition of that car, a lack of detail does not preclude the formation of the contract. Rather, a court would find that FSN had contracted to provide Mr. Jones with some type of vehicle.
Once the formation of a contract has been established, there remains ambiguity as to what exactly constitutes the promised “free car.” Here, a reasonable interpretation would be left to the jury. While FSN may argue that a miniature car suffices, industry custom is once again useful. Local businesses sponsoring the Wildcats have, in the past, been known to offer promotional prizes as valuable as a new lawn mower. In those cases, functional, full-sized prizes of a certain quality and condition were delivered. Examples of other sponsors’ prize cars from similar contests nationwide could also be used to establish the bounds of what is customary. Moreover, the context of Mr. Jones’ circumstances, that the car was “presented by” Kia of Erie, may lend assistance to determining the type of vehicle reasonably promised (namely, a Kia product). Not only is the promise for a car sufficiently definite, but, with more information regarding industry custom in awarding vehicles, a jury could enforce the contract for a real car.

4. Mr. Jones’ participation in the roaring contest constitutes consideration for the agreement.
The law requires that a contract have consideration for the promise in order to be enforceable. [Williston at § 3:2.] In Pennsylvania, consideration is a requirement for “a bargained for exchange” which confers a “benefit upon the promisor or causes a detriment to the promisee.” [Cobaugh, 561 A.2d at 1250]. For a prize-winning contest, performance in a contest can be consideration for the prize when the participant was not otherwise under a legal duty to perform. [See id. at 1250].
The FSN representative told Mr. Jones that, in order to win the car, he would need to first go down to the infield before the ninth inning, appear on camera, and perform a “Wildcat Roar” for the stadium and television audience. Mr. Jones proceeded to do all of those things, even though he was not under any preexisting legal duty to do so. This case is similar to Cobaugh, in which a golfer completed a hole-in-one in order to win a car. In that case, the court found that the sponsor benefitted from the publicity of the promotion; here, FSN benefits from the publicity that a “local celebrity” brought to its broadcast. [See id. at 1250]. Alternatively, Mr. Jones undertook the detriment of performing on camera where a legal duty did not exist requiring him to do so. Under either analysis, Mr. Jones’ performance constitutes consideration for the promised vehicle.
